---
id: 1151
title: Math 241 Final
date: 2011-05-05T19:00:56+00:00
author: tom_schenk
layout: post
guid: http://tomschenkjr.net/?p=1151
permalink: /blog/math-241-final/
superawesome:
  - 'false'
jabber_published:
  - "1304643842"
email_notification:
  - "1304643842"
categories:
  - Teaching
---
<ol>
	<li>Download this <a href="http://tomschenkjr.net/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/math241-final.xlsx">Excel document</a>. We will spend some time trying to understand what influences graduation rates.</li>
	<li>Graph a histogram for <em>$/Student</em> and<em> SAT</em> score.</li>
<ol>
	<li>Copy &amp; paste each graph into a word document.</li>
	<li>Describe whether or not each variable appears to be normally distributed.</li>
	<li>Estimate the mean, median, and mode based on the graph for both variables.</li>
</ol>
	<li>Calculate the mean, median, and mode for <em>%Grad</em>.</li>
	<li>Create a scatterplot between <em>%Grad</em> and <em>SAT</em> score with <em>%Grad</em> on the x-axis. Do you believe there is a relationship? Explain why or why not and the direction of the relationship (e.g., positive, negative, or no relationship)</li>
	<li>The average SAT score in the United States is 1030. Conduct a hypothesis test which compares the distribution of this dataset to the national average at the 5% level. Is there a statistically significant difference?</li>
	<li>Conduct a hypothesis test comparing the average <em>SAT</em> for a <em>Lib Arts</em> institution and a <em>Univ</em>. Are there statistically significant differences at the 5% level?</li>
	<li>Conduct a multiple regression (copy and paste all three regression tables into the Word document):</li>
<ol>
	<li>The equation for the regression is <em>Grad% = %PhD + Top 10% + $/Student + Acceptance + SAT + School_Type. </em>You may need to recode the <em>School_Type</em> into a binary variable.</li>
	<li>What variables explain differences, with statistical significance at 5%, in the graduation level at colleges. Explain, in plain language, the relationship between each significant variable and the graduation rate.</li>
	<li>Grinnell College, located in Iowa, has a 1244 SAT, 67% acceptance rate, 22,301 $/student, 65% were in the top 10%, and 79% of faculty had PhD's. Calculate the predicted value of their graduation rate. What's the difference between the predicted graduation rate and the actual graduation rate (e.g., calculate the number)?</li>
	<li>How much of the variation in %Grad is explained by this model?</li>
</ol>
	<li>Email me the answer sheet (Word) and the results (either Excel and/or SPSS).</li>
</ol>